#summary Building from source

This page contains instructions for building the program and documentation from source.

= Prerequisites =

== Hardware ==

This program makes use of SSE2 instructions (through compiler intrinsics)  to optimize critical parts of the computation. Therefore, the CPU must be Intel or AMD with SSE2 support. Both 32-bit and 64-bit are supported, but 64-bit offers better runtime performance.

== Operating System ==

This program is a command line utility. It supports both Windows and Linux variants. The testing environments include:
  * Windows 7
  * Windows 8 Consumer Preview
  * Fedora 16
  * Ubuntu 11.10

== Compiler ==

The source code is written in C++ and uses a subset of C++0x features (such as lambda expression, `array` header, etc). Therefore the compiler (and the bundled STL) must implement the related parts of C++0x standard. The following compilers are supported:
  * Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 (including Express)
  * Microsoft Visual C++ 11 Beta
  * GNU C++ Compiler 4.5.3
  * Intel C++ Compiler 12.1.3
In practice, GCC generates the fastest executable. MSVC generates slightly slower executable (about 10% slower than GCC). And ICC generates the slowest executable (another 15% slower than MSVC). For any compiler, 64-bit code is faster than 32-bit code.

= Getting the Source =

The source code is hosted in an SVN repository on Google Code. You can check out the source code using the following command (or via a GUI such as TortoiseSVN for Windows):
<code language="sh">svn checkout https://mastermind-strategy.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ mastermind-strategy</code>
This includes all source code as well as documentation.

= Compiling and Linking =

== Under Windows ==

A VC++ 2010 solution file is included in the root directory of the source. Load this solution in VC2010 and build it. You can choose Debug or Release, and Win32 or x64.

== Under Linux ==

A Code::Blocks project file is provided. Alternatively, you can use cmake to build from the included CMakeLists.txt file.